Science of Programming
======================

Science of Programming was one of the topics I enjoyed the most. I learned a lot about why programming and computing is referred to as a science; there was a lot of detail about scientific paradigms, and knowledge forms such as a priori and a posteriori knowledge. Considering some paradigms see computer science as a branch of empirical science, there is a clear link between this module and the biocomputing module. Furthermore, as such a fundamental aspect of programming, it can be argued that it is closely linked to all aspects of computer science, including the other three topics. Although I had previous experience with the assert keyword in Python and other languages, I did not understand why it existed before learning about it in this module; they are a method of obtaining a priori knowledge about a programme script. This saves a lot of time when it comes to working on another person's code as you can check if it returns an expected value before continuing, instead of needing to read and understand all of the code before proceeding. My favourite part of the topic, however, was the talk about abstraction. It was very interesting to learn about the industry from someone with many years of experience and the importance of preparation. This is something that is already stressed to us normally but to learn about it through anecdotes makes it feel a lot more significant. One thing I did not really understand was the purpose of the Wordle practical. The propositional logic one was interesting and obviously relevant, but I initially felt as though the former was random. In terms of the future, learning about this module has allowed me to identify another topic besides game engineering that I would be interested in choosing next year, and potentially beyond this course too. 

HCI
===

Before studying HCI, I did not consider how much research and work was put into UI design and UX. I initially believed that most companies just made a design that was simple and looked clean without much more effort put into it besides that; I was very wrong. It was very fascinating to learn about all the lifecycles and prototyping involved in producing an interface that is both user friendly and effective. As a multidisciplinary field, there are a lot of connections between HCI and other topics. For example, the vast amounts of research and data gathering required before creating an interface means that the data has to be collated and analysed in an efficient manner. In addition, the requirement and ability to understand how the human mind works in order to produce a product that satisfies its target audience is psychological, which has heavy ties into biology and biocomputing as a result. It was also refreshing to learn about the more physically creative aspects of computer science, it's not all just coding. Working in pairs to interview each other with specific questions was new and engaging. Additionally, making a prototype out of paper was very different to the practical sessions we've engaged with in the past and brought a new perspective regarding what computer science is really about. As someone who wants to learn more about the game engineering industry, this topic taught me a lot about how important UI design is, which is extremely important when making a game; you need an interface that is clean enough to not cause clutter and disturb gameplay, but also effective in showing exactly what is needed to be shown. In the future, I will definitely consider how I design the interface for my future games a lot more than I would have before.

Bio-computing
============

Before starting this topic, I was already a massive fan of Conway's Game of Life, and even programmed a version of it at DurHack with my team this year. I did not realise just how important it was, and also had no idea that it was not the only algorithm of its kind. For example, Langton's Ant is another algorithm with very simple rules that can have a very interesting pattern emerge after a certain number of steps. I think the most important part of this topic for me was discovering how many algorithms are created by replicating patterns seen in nature. Another ant-related example of this would be Ant Colony algorithms. I had previously known that people were attempting to create synthetic organs and meat, but I had not made the link to this being computer related; I had kept biology and computer science completely separate in my head. Although a fascinating topic, it is personally not for me; I would not want to go into this field in the future or next year. This is mostly due to the fact that I enjoy the other modules slightly more, rather than disliking it outright. As mentioned before, biocomputing has many links with the other topics, such as HCI (as a result of its psychological nature). One topic that I can find a huge connection to is game engineering. Most game engineers want their characters or colonies to feel lifelike, and will therefore use relevant algorithms or AI to simulate that life, which is very similar to the things we learned about in biocomputing. One thing that I did not enjoy a lot was the practical sessions. I didn't feel like I learned a lot, mostly due to the fact that most of the code was already written for us. I would love to try to program them without aid in the future, though.

Data Science
============

Although the most mathematical topic, this one was probably my least favourite. Similar to the biocomputing module, I felt as though I was not really doing much work myself. Albeit necessary, Python's predefined module library for data science is vast and oversimplified; you just import a method that does everything for you, which is not for me. Learning the difference between a data scientist and a data engineer was very interesting to me - I did not realise there was a difference until this. Data Scientists are the people who primary work on machine learning, analytics, visualisation for easier interpretation (which links very closely to HCI) and applied statistics, which is what I initially thought data science was exclusively about, but data engineers focus on big data analytics, or managing data efficiently at larger scales. If I had to choose of these two, I think I would prefer to do data science over data engineering, as big data has been my least favourite aspect of computer science ever since GCSEs, though I do understand the significance it has in today's world. Machine Learning was also a very interesting topic as we learned that there are multiple different types of machine learning. The main two types are supervised, which maps data to labels, using techniques such as regression and classification, and unsupervised, with techniques such as feature extraction, clustering and dimensionality reduction. Data is extremely important in all aspects of life and computer science. It is collected during the research phases of HCI, in order to better understand the intended users' wants and needs for the application being worked on. Additionally, data is used for game engineering. Whether it's small amounts of data such as players' save information, or larger amounts of data that is used for multiplayer servers and worlds, managing it efficiently in order to provide a smooth and functional experience for the user is extremely important.   

Game Engineering
================

I really enjoyed learning about the importance of optimisation in game engineering. Since games are a real-time problem, the code needs to be runnable at high frame rates in order to satisfy the player. It was also interesting learning about the required speed that game engineers need to produce higher quality products at. Due to their popularity, players are constantly desiring games that are higher quality than previous ones, meaning better AI and physics, shaders and assets, which makes optimisation a lot harder. Additionally, multithreaded programming is tricky, and I enjoy programming that involves a lot of challenge. Game engineering links very nicely to HCI, as they both involve providing a positive user experience through the use of technology; they both need interfaces that display all relevant information but is also easy to process and not full of visual clutter. Learning about the earliest games created was also very interesting; seeing how far the game industry has come in such a relatively short amount of time is fascinating. I knew that there were a lot of different disciplines required to make a game, such as writers for the storyline, artists for the visuals, and so on, but I did not realise the coders were also split up as much as they are: rendering engineers, physics engineers and AI engineers (I just assumed they were all just "programmers", who all worked on whatever parts of the code needed to be worked on at the current time). We also learned about current PhD topics that students in the field were looking at, one of which was "machine learned generation of character movements". I initially thought that machine learning was primarily used for data science but I was clearly mistaken. Learning about all these different connections between topics is very interesting. I also really enjoyed the practical sessions; playing around with a new game engine was exciting and I had a lot more freedom than other topics, such as biocomputing.